Here we get to actually building our model.
While you can build CNNs from scratch,
pre-trained models can be fine-tuned to
perform really well for medical imaging applications,
and this requires less training time and computing power.
So that's what we'll focus on here.
Recall from earlier in this lesson when we
learned about the basic architecture of the CNN,
and how it has a series of convolutional layers that feed
into each other to identify more complex features about an image.
We drew a parallel between these layers,
and the layers of the human visual cortex whose cells recognize
more and more complex features about the visual world as they feed into one another.
Let's take a deeper dive into one of these layers.
This layer is made up of 128 filters,
each with a size of 112 by 112.
It has been downsampled from the layer before that was 224 by 224,
using a technique called Max pooling,
which we won't go into depth about in this course.
Each filter, we'll learn how to discriminate one simple feature,
such as a basic line or shape,
and 128 filters mean that at this level,
the network is learning how to discriminate between 128 unique types of features.
So let's take a closer look at what some of those filters might look like.
Each box in this image represents a single filter from a convolutional layer.
For example, this filter recognizes areas of an image where there are
several sets of lines oriented at roughly a 45-degree angle.
This filter becomes activated anytime a series
of lines at a 45-degree angle is seen in an image.
This filter recognizes areas of an image that have pink in the lower left quadrant,
and green in the upper right quadrant,
and becomes activated if there is a place in an image with this feature.
Finally, this filter becomes activated when series
of close together vertical lines are detected in an image.
As we just learned,
lots of filters in the early layers of a network recognized
features from only a small area of the visual field of an image,
like line orientations and color patterns.
No matter what your classification task is,
this will be true for all CNNs.
So let's say that a researcher developed
a very powerful CNN architecture that has been trained on millions of car images,
so they could be accurately classified into different types of cars.
This CNN model could then be used by
another researcher to classify different types of cats.
You may wonder how that's possible,
but the reality is CNN architecture and
weight are a lot more adaptive than you could probably imagine.
The idea behind it is this.
The first several layers of filters trained on car images are only going to
learn how to detect line and
shape-based features because their visual fields are so small.
So what these layers would learn if they were trained on
cat images would be pretty much the same i.e.
line and shape-based features.
So the researcher can reuse or freeze
the pre-trained weights of the first few layers and only
need to train filter weights to detect
higher order features that are more relevant to our specific use case.
In this case, cats.
We call this process that only makes adjustments of
weights in the last few layers, fine-tuning.
This process can be used on 2D medical imaging as well.
For example, fine tuning a pre-trained VGG16 model to detect tumors and chest x-rays